The Airline Reservation System (ARS) is a desktop-based software designed to streamline flight bookings for customers while also providing airline staff with seamless access to flights and further management details. This not only ensures a pleased customer but also efficient and fruitful operations prioritizing robustness and security for a hassle-free reservation experience. SRS-ARS-001
Description of ARS-001 requirement

Every system requirement id includes the id of the corresponding user requirement as a prefix. 

SRS-ARS-001.1
Description of SRS-ARS-001.1 system requirement, which is related to the user requirement SRS-ARS-001


1.	REQUIREMENTS
1.	User Requirements Specification

SRS-ARS-001
ARS shall enable new users to create a user account.

SRS-ARS-002
ARS shall enable users to login their accounts by passing their username and password.

SRS-ARS-003
ARS shall enable users to search for available flights based on their specified departure and arrival airport names along with corresponding dates.

SRS-ARS-004
ARS shall allow customers to select a flight from the search results and proceed with booking.

SRS-ARS-005
ARS shall guide users through a multi-step booking process that clearly displays all essential flight details, ensuring that the user is informed about the decisions (s)he made at every stage.

SRS-ARS-006
ARS shall allow customers to view their flight details, including booking reference, departure/arrival time, and seat number.

SRS-ARS-007
ARS shall enable customers to modify or cancel their reservations.

SRS-ARS-008
ARS shall allow customers to retrieve their booking details using a booking reference number.

SRS-ARS-009
ARS shall offer a seat preference option (window or aisle) in the main menu after user login, allowing users to view available flights that match their selected preference.

SRS-ARS-010
ARS shall enable admins to log in their accounts.

SRS-ARS-011
ARS shall enable admins to monitor all scheduled flights based on their specified departure and arrival airport names along with corresponding dates.

SRS-ARS-012
ARS shall enable admins to add new flights based on their specified departure and arrival airport names along with corresponding dates. Additionally, admins shall be able to cancel scheduled flights.

SRS-ARS-013 
ARS shall enable admins to monitor all registered users, including their booking history for security purposes.

SRS-ARS-014
ARS shall enable admins to suspend or permanently delete user accounts due to suspicious activity, or user requests.
1.	System Requirements Specification

SRS-SIS-001.1
ARS shall allow users to create a new account by asking their username, passwords, gender, age, and country. 

SRS-SIS-001.2
ARS shall check for the passed username, password, gender, age, and country information for completeness and any possible misuse of characters.

SRS-SIS-002.1
ARS shall securely authenticate users by verifying their username and password upon login.

SRS-SIS-002.2
ARS shall greet users with their names on the entrance screen.

SRS-SIS-002.3
ARS shall not share users’ passwords with external users and even with airline staff for security purposes.
SRS-ARS-003.1
ARS shall provide a flight search form where users can input departure and arrival airport names along with corresponding dates.
SRS-ARS-003.2
ARS shall display search results including flight number, departure and arrival times, available seats, and airline name.
SRS-ARS-004.1
ARS shall generate a booking reference number and display it to the user upon completion of the booking.
SRS-ARS-004.2
ARS shall process the flight selection and transition to the booking screen within 5 seconds after the user selects a flight from the search results. 
SRS-ARS-005.1
ARS shall validate the customer details by comparing the input from the user and the information accessed from the database before confirming the booking.
SRS-ARS-005.2
ARS shall carry the input information taken from the user to the next steps of booking through a GUI window that is used to display the essential information (date, seat number, contact info) about the decisions made by the user so far.
SRS-ARS-006.1
ARS shall display booked flight details, including booking reference, departure/arrival time, and seat number on the customer dashboard.
SRS-ARS-007.1
ARS shall provide an interface for customers to modify or cancel their reservations before the deadline specified by the airline.
SRS-ARS-008.1
ARS shall allow customers to retrieve their booking details by entering their booking reference number.
SRS-ARS-009.1                                                                                                                                                     ARS shall provide a preference section within the GUI where users can set their default seat preference (aisle/window) for future bookings. 
SRS-ARS-009.2                                                                                                                                                      ARS shall provide a dedicated section that lists all flights with available seats matching the user's preferred seat choice upon user’s request for “see available flights with my preference” button in the GUI.
SRS-ARS-010.1
ARS shall authenticate admin username and password using a secure hashing algorithm and check them against the stored records in the DBMS.
SRS-ARS-011.1
ARS shall retrieve and display scheduled flights from the database, allowing admins to filter results by departure and arrival airport names, dates, flight number, and airline.
SRS-ARS-012.1
ARS shall allow admins to insert new flight records into the database,  ensure uniqueness of flight numbers and prevent duplicate entries.
SRS-ARS-012.2
ARS shall update the flight status in the database when an admin cancels a scheduled flight before departure and a notification is sent from the system to inform affected passengers.
SRS-ARS-013.1
ARS shall provide an admin dashboard that queries and displays user booking history by getting data from the database.
SRS-ARS-014.1
ARS shall allow admins to suspend, or delete user accounts through the admin dashboard by updating the account status field in the database for security reasons.
For database integration, MySQL will be used as the database management system, and JDBC will be implemented to facilitate communication between the application and the database.
